BLOG: Case for Separating Build (#854)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/_posts/2023-05-01-case-for-separating-build.md

---
title: "Building a Better Supply Chain: The Case for Separating Build"
author: Melba Lopez, Kris Kooi
is_guest_post: false
---

SLSA’s mission is to ensure the integrity of build systems and the software they produce. Our original vision was a single set of comprehensive security standards that encompassed the full software supply chain. As we iterated on the specification, we came to see that the original vision was flawed. 

Supply chains by their very nature span operational domains, and it is not common or realistic to expect a single team or organization to secure one end-to-end. Instead, we decided to decompose SLSA in a way that establishes clear ownership for each component of the supply chain and allows each owner to work in parallel.

> ## The case for separation

Reviewer: The general argument is good, but I find the particular scenarios either too broad or too few to be sufficiently clear. Why not remove these scenarios altogether, and just talk about how it is difficult to try to change all the major pieces of the puzzle all at once, and so we decided to focus on Build, even if it means depending on a SaaS platform to actually meet v1.0 requirements?

Let's take a look at another example, in which the producer is responsible for the majority of the supply chain security components.  

### Scenario 2: Outsourced CI/CD
CI/CD-aaS service providers may attest to some aspects of the build, while consumers may attest to the remaining portions of the software supply chain (illustrated below).    
<image align = "float" image height = "275px" img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/101211710/235576527-d3ab6f42-f690-482d-ae8e-2854b9f0a232.png" alt = "Scenario 2" /> 

## Future SLSA Tracks

> Software Supply Chain Security is a multi-faceted problem that extends well beyond the build process, so the SLSA community expects that the Build Track is just the first of many SLSA tracks. As the framework evolves, we will expand its scope to include other critical aspects of the SDLC, such as secure source code management and dependency ingestion. For instance, future iterations of SLSA will introduce more stringent requirements for source code management in a Source Track that will ensure that the source code ingested into a build is authentic and free of common vulnerabilities. Similarly, SLSA may also explore ways to ensure that dependencies, such as third-party libraries, are following security standards, up-to-date, and free from known security issues in a dependency track. Our up-to-date roadmap is available on SLSA's [Future directions](https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.0/future-directions) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Software Supply Chain Security is a multi-faceted problem that extends well beyond the build process, so the SLSA community expects that the Build Track is just the first of many SLSA tracks. As the framework evolves, we will expand its scope to include other critical aspects of the SDLC, such as secure source code management and dependency ingestion. For instance, future iterations of SLSA will introduce more stringent requirements for source code management in a Source Track that will ensure that the source code ingested into a build is authentic and free of common vulnerabilities. Similarly, SLSA may also explore ways to ensure that dependencies, such as third-party libraries, are following security standards, up-to-date, and free from known security issues in a Dependency track. Last but not least, SLSA may collaborate with the sibling [OpenSSF Securing Software Repositories WG](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-f6m442MHg9hktrbcp-4sM9GbZC3HLTpZPpxMXjMCp4/edit?usp=sharing) on a Package track that may define [attestations](https://github.com/npm/attestation/tree/main/specs/publish/v0.1) for package repositories or image registries. Our up-to-date roadmap is available on SLSA's [Future directions](https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.0/future-directions) page.
```

author: Melba Lopez, Kris Kooi
is_guest_post: false
---

SLSA’s mission is to ensure the integrity of build systems and the software they produce. Our original vision was a single set of comprehensive security standards that encompassed the full software supply chain. As we iterated on the specification, we came to see that the original vision was flawed. 

Supply chains by their very nature span operational domains; Interoperability is crucial in supply chains, and standards must be carefully decomposed and applied locally to ensure end-to-end security.

## The case for separation

SLSA v0.1 levels only work when a single entity controls the entire software supply chain lifecycle, which is often not the case.  The infrastructure comprising the build system, the source code and image/template repositories, and the security scanning tools are all assumed to be within the trust boundary.  The trust model breaks down when multiple “entities” control a portion of the software supply chain. 

<image align = "center" image height = "300px" img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/101211710/235577022-f7102111-d4d5-43e1-b014-78e19209a203.png" alt="Single Trust" />
     
     

> ### Scenario 1: Controlled Build, CI/CD, & Partial Controlled Source 

Reviewer 2: Can we make the scenarios stronger by tying them to a real-world use case? For example, is this a small business or an OSS project? The text mentions an OSS project, but the diagram shows a much larger supply chain that has the OSS project as a dependency. Who is responsible for the whole picture, and what are they doing?

Author: good point.  We can potentially say this is a single organizatoin's implementation whether it be OSS or enterprise.  Even OSS has dependencies on other OSS :)  so each area (security tools, build, repos, etc.) is being maintained by 1 entity.  It can be a small group or a large one.  

Thoughts?

Reviewer 2: That sounds good to me. We might want to adjust the diagrams to reflect those boundaries.

> <image align = "right" image height = "175px" img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/101211710/235576995-c15449fe-f8f6-4af0-8d5d-5bcf0e6b6d70.png" alt = "Scenario 1" />

Reviewer 2: We also probably want to link to these images in our repo as opposed to githibusercontent.com.

> <image align = "right" image height = "175px" img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/101211710/235576995-c15449fe-f8f6-4af0-8d5d-5bcf0e6b6d70.png" alt = "Scenario 1" />

Author: Would love to make this more accessible, but don't have any knowledge on how to do that.  Would you be able to assist? or is there a site that can help?

> <image align = "right" image height = "175px" img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/101211710/235576995-c15449fe-f8f6-4af0-8d5d-5bcf0e6b6d70.png" alt = "Scenario 1" />

Reviewer 2: I think all we have to do is describe the images and then put it in the HTML tag used for hover text. I'm happy to suggest text once we've settled on which examples we want to use and what exactly they're illustrating.

Real-world systems have complex trust boundaries, which makes it difficult to make meaningful security statements with a single attestation. The simple example (illustrated to the right) enables us to see why Build came to be separated.

> Outsourcing portions of infrastructure to a service provider, may hinder the ability to provide a full SLSA attestation.  Organizations may want to outsource due to lack of skills or resources. However, if the provider does not have full control/visibility, 100% SLSA attestation would be unlikely.   

Reviewer 3: I would highlight that these service providers can be other teams, departments, or external companies. Folks are getting very confused that SLSA is purely SaaS only.

Author: can you check the latest changes to see if it helps?

> Outsourcing portions of infrastructure to a service provider, may hinder the ability to provide a full SLSA attestation.  Organizations may want to outsource due to lack of skills or resources. However, if the provider does not have full control/visibility, 100% SLSA attestation would be unlikely.   

Author: Somehow i missed this change and since its considered "outdated" i had to do it a different way.

Committed change here: https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/pull/854/commits/04ee3aacafa465114312be75dc05e5d7ccbb5f21

> <image align = "right" image height = "200px" img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/101211710/235576570-62b23cb2-fdde-4056-b4f1-9d96fc379d4d.png" alt = "Scenario 1" /> The example in the diagrams may be more common, especially in the open source community.  As the community focuses on code development, they may “outsource” the build, security checks, etc. to an organization such as GitHub.  Thus, the open source community may be able to make claim of SLSA compliance for source, but would need the attestation for the build/security vetting from the service provider (GitHub as provided in this example).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<image align = "right" image height = "200px" img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/101211710/235576570-62b23cb2-fdde-4056-b4f1-9d96fc379d4d.png" alt = "Scenario 1" /> In this scenario, an open source community stores its source code on GitHub and uses a custom Jenkins cluster to run their tests and build releases. They can't get past SLSA L2 until they harden their build cluster, even though they may meet the SLSA v0.1 source requirements. That means that a consumer who wants SLSA L3 dependencies would stop using the project, even if they don't care about the pre-built releases because they build all their dependencies from source.
```

Move this above the previous paragraph. I think they end up a bit redundant, but we can trim later.

> Let's take a look at another example, in which the producer is responsible for the majority of the supply chain security components.  

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need this sentence.

Author: hmm which sentence? the last one?  We can take it out..i was trying to do a transition to the next section.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I meant the transition one. The examples are in a numbered list, so I don't think we need a transition.
```suggestion
```

> ### Scenario 2: Outsourced CI/CD

Reviewer 2: I think we should expand on this example or drop it. It isn't clear to me from the diagram or text what exactly we're trying to say here.

Author: I had 3 scenarios but then bundled 2 of them together and separated this one out.  Hard for me to explain over git.. maybe a live convo would help.  Essentially, this is a method by which the CI/CD system can be owned by 1 entity, but the workers/runners in which the jobs actually run on can be private.  So the CI/CD only knows what it does, but can't claim anything about the workers/runners that are actually performing the tasks.

Reviewer 2: +1 to discussing on video chat.

CI/CD-aaS service providers may attest to some aspects of the build, while consumers may attest to the remaining portions of the software supply chain (illustrated below).    
<image align = "float" image height = "275px" img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/101211710/235576527-d3ab6f42-f690-482d-ae8e-2854b9f0a232.png" alt = "Scenario 2" /> 

## Future of SLSA Tracks

The SLSA community wanted to ensure that the requirements were clear with no ambiguity for the SLSA 1.0 release.  When considering expanded use cases and the complexity that comes with them, we decided collectively to create Build as a separate track.   This allows flexibility for organizations and the open source community to adhere to some (or all) of the SLSA requirements. 

> Additionally, the Supply Chain Integrity Working Group is collaborating with [SLSA and S2C2F](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E9BvXkNhbLPj6AnUjoAbci3TI5FdnCY2zpi4UZnM7D8/edit?disco=AAAAq2cLbqE) to leverage the full potential of OSSF’s technologies together further reducing software supply chain risks.  As we continue our journey, we welcome collaboration and input from the community! 

Reviewer 2: While I understand the desire to give shout outs to other OpenSSF projects, I'm not sure this one fits here. Including S2C2F under "Future of SLSA Tracks" implies that it will become a SLSA track. (I'm not opposed to the idea, but afaik that isn't the case.)

Maybe we could move it down next to the pointer to Michael's blog post?

Author: hmmmm ... i think we discussed that potentially S2C2F would cover the dependency track, but we needed to do a gap assessment (hence why i put it here).  We could put it later with a tease that there will be more to come and to come join the fun? :)

Reviewer 2: I see. I think I made this problem by deleting the "Conclusion" header. Maybe we could add it back with a more descriptive name? Perhaps something like "How to get involved" or "Other resources" would work.

Reviewer 4: There is an ongoing discussion on S2C2F and it’s bridging in place of the dependency track. To that end a SLSA dependency track may become a compliance mechanism to ensure controls outlined in S2C2F are followed. I don’t want to have that discussion here. All that is to say we can and should include it as thought leadership on the how SLSA collaborates with other frameworks and provides an “AND” rather than an “OR” in supporting industry supply chain security concerns.

> ## Future of SLSA Tracks
> 
> The SLSA community wanted to ensure that the requirements were clear with no ambiguity for the SLSA 1.0 release.  When considering expanded use cases and the complexity that comes with them, we decided collectively to create Build as a separate track.   This allows flexibility for organizations and the open source community to adhere to some (or all) of the SLSA requirements. 
> 
> Additionally, the Supply Chain Integrity Working Group is collaborating with [SLSA and S2C2F](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E9BvXkNhbLPj6AnUjoAbci3TI5FdnCY2zpi4UZnM7D8/edit?disco=AAAAq2cLbqE) to leverage the full potential of OSSF’s technologies together further reducing software supply chain risks.  As we continue our journey, we welcome collaboration and input from the community! 
> 
> ## Closure/Conclusion
> While the build process is crucial, the SLSA contributors and maintainers recognize that Software Supply Chain Security is a multi-faceted problem that extends beyond this stage. As the framework evolves, it will expand its scope to include other critical aspects of the SDLC, such as secure source code management and dependency ingestion. For instance, future iterations of SLSA will introduce more stringent requirements for source code management in a source track that might include code reviews, vulnerability scanning, and secure coding practices. These measures will ensure that the source code ingested into a build is secure and free of common vulnerabilities. Similarly, SLSA may also explore ways to ensure that dependencies, such as third-party libraries, are following security standards, up-to-date, and free from known security issues in a dependency track.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Future SLSA Tracks

Software Supply Chain Security is a multi-faceted problem that extends well beyond the build process, so the SLSA community expects that the Build Track is just the first of many SLSA tracks. As the framework evolves, we will expand its scope to include other critical aspects of the SDLC, such as secure source code management and dependency ingestion. For instance, future iterations of SLSA will introduce more stringent requirements for source code management in a Source Track that will ensure that the source code ingested into a build is authentic and free of common vulnerabilities. Similarly, SLSA may also explore ways to ensure that dependencies, such as third-party libraries, are following security standards, up-to-date, and free from known security issues in a dependency track. Our up-to-date roadmap is available on SLSA's [Future directions](https://slsa.dev/spec/v1.0/future-directions) page.

Additionally, the Supply Chain Integrity Working Group is collaborating with [SLSA and S2C2F](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E9BvXkNhbLPj6AnUjoAbci3TI5FdnCY2zpi4UZnM7D8/edit?disco=AAAAq2cLbqE) to leverage the full potential of OSSF’s technologies together further reducing software supply chain risks.  As we continue our journey, we welcome collaboration and input from the community! 

```

> For more about our SLSA tracks, please see another great blog post [“The Breadth and Depth of SLSA”](https://slsa.dev/blog/2023/04/the-breadth-and-depth-of-slsa), by another maintainer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more about our SLSA tracks, please see SLSA maintainer Michael Lieberman's blog post [“The Breadth and Depth of SLSA”](https://slsa.dev/blog/2023/04/the-breadth-and-depth-of-slsa).
```

Reviewer 2: @mlieberman85 Are you okay getting a shout out by name?
